Just shovel that kibble.
Do you think I'm ambitious?
Yeah.
That's nice.
Oh.
I always think
that curiosity is the best dance.
(hands thwacking)
But they're all like,
"Eh, just to eat more vegetables." And I'm like (beep).
(Hank laughing)
This is all I do.
I just wanna sort screws.
I'm Hank Green,
I'm Simone Giertz.
And this is
"Ask Hank Anything."
(bright music)
Hello, I'm Hank Green, and I love questions.
So I've created a whole show about questions.
Guests ask me questions that I get to learn more about
in order to answer their questions.
Then the best part, I get to talk to them
about those questions and I get to learn about them
through their own curiosities, which I think
is one of the things that makes us into humans.
Today, we have inventor, YouTuber, founder of Yetch Studio.
It's Simone Giertz.
(graphic rustling)
Hello.
Hi.
I always love seeing you.
It's so good to see you.
Yeah.
Not just through a screen.
How are you?
I'm good.
You have a question?
I have a question for you.
Okay. (laughs)
Well, but not one of those.
A new one.
No. I have a new one.
A fresh one. Great.
A fresh one.
Do you know that you're sitting on apple boxes?
Am I sitting on apple boxes?
What do you mean?
Do you know
why you're sitting on apple boxes?
I don't know, I don't even know what you mean.
Is the chair on apple boxes?
Your team put a bunch of apple boxes under this cushion
and hid it with a blanket because I brought my own chair
and it was too tall.
So I would like sit and tower over you,
and they're like, "No, we need to keep-"
We need to prop him up.
We need to give him a booster seat.
Look, I can be any size and I'm fine, you can be,
Yeah. (laughing)
You could be bigger.
I could be bigger. Whatever.
I'm sure, yeah.
I could,
but they're making the cameras do
what the cameras need to do.
Uh-huh.
That's right.
Yeah.
No, I did not know
that I was sitting on apple boxes.
I just thought it was funny.
Oh my God, yeah.
Yeah.
(both laughing)
In the film world, I learned about this.
In the world of making content,
there's these things called Apple boxes,
which used to, I assume, be actual apple boxes,
but tend to be a standard size.
And oftentimes if you're watching a show,
one of the people is standing on an apple box
just so they'll be more similar heighted.
And they're like weirdly expensive.
They're very solidly made now.
Yeah.
And then they also,
they now come in many different thicknesses.
Yeah.
So I'm sure they used
to just be the one apple box size, but these ones are like,
you know, just like three inches.
Yeah. That's all it took.
Put my hand on it.
For me to not
I'm gonna take it out
because they worked really hard.
Yeah.
(both laughing)
I'll just sit up.
Yeah. I can also push up.
Okay.
But yeah, we usually do it on a couch,
but we're not doing it on a couch
because we have this amazing chair
that we brought in for you.
No, no, you brought it in for us.
I, you know, I was telling people that it's actually
in my rider, that I need to sit on my own chair.
Sit on my special chair.
Oh, I won't just sit on any chair.
I have to sit on my special chair.
That's a good weird one.
People are always like, "What's in your rider?"
And I'm like, "Literally, I need there to be some food
that isn't like fancy LA food."
Yeah.
"I need you to have
some like M and Ms, I need to have some chips.
Yeah.
Like, not just weird
air one pickles.
I Always-
That's, that's what's in my rider.
I request seaweed snacks.
See, you're the opposite of me.
I would, I know maybe.
I'm like, "I need this one weird snack."
I need it from the ocean.
Yeah.
Like a fish.
I need it dried by a PA
and seasoned by an executive producer.
(both laughing)
So this is your, the laundry chair.
You wanna talk about it now?
Yeah. Well, I've seen it.
You wanna do it on top?
Yeah.
I feel like we're, we,
we're halfway through already.
Okay.
It's beautifully done.
Oh, it spins without you spinning.
So, you can put your laundry on it.
I think I have a shirt here.
I, I can't take any clothes off without becoming indecent.
We're doing Home Shoppers Network full on here.
Here we are.
Yeah.
Oh, nice.
Okay. So.
Nice.
Instead of having your shirt
Pile of, pile of clothes chair?
Yeah, you can hang it.
Yeah.
On your chair. And then-
It's backpack.
Hide away the mess.
Oh man.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes?
Great.
I'm in favor of it.
I appreciate that.
It must be terrifying to make a chair.
It's not terrifying to make the first chair.
Like the first version of it was not terrifying.
Oh, sure. That Yeah. Exactly.
Like frustrating maybe, but not terrifying.
It is absolutely terrifying to manufacture a chair
and buy a bunch of stock that might end up costing you
Yeah, this is what I mean.
1000s and 1000s of dollars
in storage fees if people decide that they don't want it.
And also, like, you can't make like
a bunch of different chairs.
Yeah.
You have to make
the best one, you have to pick the good looking functional-
Yeah.
comfortable chair.
And it's always gonna be a compromise 'cause it's like-
There's always kind of
I wish we could have like
Compromise.
10 different colors,
but we had to pick just one color.
You have to pick one color.
And it's green.
Yeah. It looks very nice.
And, I, thank you.
It looks great with your shirt.
I just assembled it in my workshop today.
Oh. Oh?
So yeah, it's its debut.
And then you put it in a U-Haul and brought it over?
Yeah. In my car.
Okay. We get that car.
Yeah.
Okay. (laughs)
Is that a thing that the people can have?
Yeah, we're selling them.
Oh my God.
Yeah. We're just releasing them
as a product at Yetch Studio, which is-
Amazing.
Which is crazy, so.
I just bought a couple of things from Yetch Studio myself.
Why did you buy it?
Girl, I,
Just text me.
Oh my God. No.
Yes.
No.
I'm buying a present for my wife.
I'm not going to just text a friend for it.
But it's like, I realize that one of the core reasons
I love having a product business is because I love
You love to give things.
To give people things.
(both laughing)
And it's just, I like being able to be like, oh,
I can send this to you.
It's just the nicest feeling.
Yeah.
My son and I actually had a really lovely conversation
about it.
Yeah?
So I said to him, "Orin,
You know how when we do a puzzle?"
Mm-hm.
"There are two kinds
of pieces, it's the edge pieces
and there's the inside pieces."
And he was like, "Yeah."
And I was like, "How would you make a puzzle
that only has one kind of piece?"
And he thought about it for a little while and he said,
"Well, you would make the outside pieces have the nubs."
And I was like, "Yeah,
Oh yeah.
that's totally one way you would do it.
What's another way you would do it?"
And then he thought about it for a long time
and he was like, "I don't,
I don't know another way that I would do it."
And I was like, "What if you wanted all the pieces
to be edge pieces?"
And he was like, "I don't know."
And I was like, "I want you to go to the mudroom
and I want you to get the package that just came in."
And we talked about how you would make a puzzle
just with edges, and he thought it was so smart.
And we talked about how you would sort out the pieces
that weren't 'cause, 'cause when you'd cut the thing,
it would create pieces that aren't gonna go
in the final box, so how would you separate those out?
And he said that you would paint them a different color
and have a machine that could see that color,
and it would pick out the ones that had that color.
Oh, that's smart.
And I was like,
"That's a good idea, but probably what they did
is they just made those pieces really big,
and then they could size sort them
with a size sorting machine."
And then we watched YouTube videos of size sorting machines.
I can't believe that you managed to turn that
into an educational moment.
It's just, it is impressive.
And I was like,
I was like, "My friend is such a genius.
She figured out how to make a puzzle with just edges."
That's very sweet. And honestly,
getting the big middle pieces out is a pain.
Is it?
And we've had, yeah.
'cause it's a manual process.
Yeah.
They actually have to pick them out,
so when we design them.
And what's the border like?
Does the border go in to it? 'cause the, there's some areas
Sometimes, so we were trying
Yeah?
to limit it to like maybe five throwaway pieces,
because otherwise it's just so much.
Yeah.
And we want them to kind of
be big sections.
Easy to grab.
But the issue is that that creates an opportunity
for other pieces to disappear as well.
So we've had some customers who received incomplete puzzles.
That's not good.
And then we have to go
and find, okay, here's your replacement puzzle.
Yeah.
Because that did do
an incomplete puzzle, but that was intentionally incomplete.
Yes.
The unintentionally
incomplete ones are not.
You don't want that?
No. No, no. Well, that's really sweet.
Which one did you, did you get the ant one?
We got both. (laughs)
Oh.
You're so nice. Thank you.
The river one is very difficult.
Okay.
Don't, yeah. Beware.
It looks hard.
It is hard.
We like a hard puzzle though.
Yeah.
You send me questions that are actual questions
and thank you for answering my question about
how you sort out the puzzle pieces.
Mm-hm.
Ask me a question.
Okay. I don't remember the questions I wrote.
No, that's often how it goes.
Good one. Yeah.
Do our pets just have Stockholm syndrome?
No.
Really?
Yeah, so, so as far as dogs go, in particular,
I think that cats definitely don't,
because cats kind of feel like they don't care that.
Yeah.
It's not like they,
they're like super falling in love with you.
But I mean, that's the reason I, I,
I mean I've been thinking about this 'cause I'm like,
it's kind of a messed up power dynamic.
Where it's like, yeah.
Sure. Mm-hm.
I love my dog, but I'm also the one who tells her
when she's allowed to go outside.
Yeah.
I put her on a leash,
I control her food.
Yeah.
Like it's a very imbalanced power dynamic.
I feel a lot better about the relationship that I have
with my stray cat that showed up and who's indoor outdoor.
Yeah.
Because if our relationship
doesn't suit her.
She's gone.
She can just go off
on some other situation.
With that said, I don't think that my dog
would be gone if like.
Right, right.
She wouldn't, but.
If she left, she'd be very sad and confused,
and sad and scared.
But also we've bred them to love us.
Yes.
Like can you imagine
if you fell like your wife was like, "Actually,
I genetically engineered you to love me."
So I'm not genetically engineered to love Catherine,
but I am genetically-
Sorry.
Selected to love a person.
That's true.
So that has been
selected for.
Which is lucky because
some people don't seem to be drawn towards other things.
Bridges and stuff.
But, oh, I didn't know about that one.
Like people who fall in love with inanimate objects.
Yeah, well, I was thinking like Bigfoot fetishes.
Yeah. Everything its like-
It sucks to have a fetish
or something that doesn't exist.
Yeah. Oh no. It's very sad.
It's like the whale that sings on a different frequency
Yeah.
from all the other whales.
It's like, "No one is here, they don't speak my words."
Okay. Sorry.
Just like that.
So we know it is that it like, stray dogs will adopt people
just like stray cats will adopt people.
Mm.
So in, we don't have
this as much, but there's lots of places where dogs
are kind of out and around and don't have people.
Yeah.
And in those places,
those dogs, you know, they can form relationships
with the people who live around and they start to prefer
some people to other people.
And then sometimes those dogs end up living more full-time
or even totally full-time with those people
in the same way that cats do.
So you are right that we have bred them to like us,
but it seems that we have well and truly
bred them to like us.
Like they like us and they like to live with us.
Yeah.
But that's artificial
selection in the same way that like natural selection
has selected us to, you know,
fall in love with each other as humans.
And I don't know how we ended up also loving dogs,
but we sure do.
We do.
Maybe we got Stockholm syndrome by them.
They're like, "I'm gonna evolve to have these big, cute eyes
and to be really sweet and soft."
I mean, they have.
Yeah.
I mean they both, I mean they've evolved to-
Yes.
Read our emotions.
Uh-huh. Do you know that
And know when we're sad.
wolves don't have eyebrows?
They don't have eyebrow muscles.
Really?
And dogs have evolved
to have eyebrow muscles so that they can have
more expressive faces, faces.
Oh, so they get treats.
Yeah. So they can be like, they can make that face.
Okay.
Amazing. But I have more
to talk to you about here, so you're from Stockholm?
Yes.
Do you know the full
Stockholm syndrome story and how Stockholm syndrome
might kind of not be a thing?
I heard that it's kind of been like
not clinically debunked, but that the interpretation
of the situation was more people, but also I don't wanna,
no, I have not.
No, no, I am curious.
Yeah. No, but there was a bank robbery.
There was a bank robbery.
People were held hostage.
Yes.
The hostages kind of played
nice with the hostagees.
Yes.
The, so the, the real weird twist here
that I had never heard until I was looking into this,
is that the guy who went into the bank and got the hostages,
nobody liked him.
Okay.
One of the things he demanded was for another criminal
to be released, who was his former cellmate,
who thought he thought was like a really genius criminal,
to be released and, and like taken to him.
And then there would be two criminals
because he needed like, help doing his crime.
He'd kind of backed himself into a corner.
They were like, "Bring me my old cellmate."
And so they brought this second guy.
And the second guy was like very chill
and supportive of everybody.
He really calmed things down.
He was like trying to fix the situation.
It's like the emotional support cellmate.
Yeah. He did not, apparently, it's not entirely clear,
but probably he had no idea
that this was ever going to happen.
They hadn't like planned this in advance.
He wasn't like, "Hey, when you get out,
do a bank robbery and get me out."
But it was all very unclear at the time.
And so he seems to have like come in
and tried to calm things down.
And like the people who were hostages liked him.
Mm.
And that's very different
from like the guy who came in and made your life very bad
and started using you as a bargaining trip.
Right 'cause this was the like-
Yeah.
Unassuming third party.
That came in.
Like the mediator kind of.
Yeah. Yeah.
But like at the time it was, it was assumed
that these two were in, in cahoots with each other.
Oh.
And that he had been like,
"Hey, when you get out, get me out."
It's still unclear of course, because like, you know?
How did this all go down?
The criminals don't love to tell the truth.
But also in this case, it seemed that the person
who is often said to have had Stockholm syndrome,
she just did not like the way that the police
were handling the situation and there were several things
that happened that you're like, "Well, yeah,
it makes sense that she would feel that way."
(gentle music)
Hello. It's future Hank.
The case that gave the world Stockholm syndrome
was the 1973 Norrmalmstorg Bank siege in Stockholm.
Where Jan-Erik Olsson held four bank employees hostage
for six days.
During the standoff, hostage Kristin Enmark,
stunned the public by telling the Prime Minister
over the phone that she feared the police
more than the gunman and wanted the authorities
to stop escalating the situation.
After the siege ended, a police advisor coined the label
that became Stockholm syndrome
and applied it to the hostages even though
he had not actually interviewed Enmark herself.
But as past Hank was saying, Enmark's lack of sympathy
for police was not especially mysterious.
Early in the siege, police misidentified the robber
and then sent in the supposed criminal's 16-year-old brother
who turned out to be a complete stranger
to the actual criminal and the 16-year-old was nearly shot
when the plan went wrong.
Later the police drilled into the vault
and prepared a tear gas assault
while the hostages were trapped inside.
And Enmark said that by then it was the police
she was afraid of because she thought their intervention
might get everyone killed.
So we find the defining case for Stockholm syndrome
is a lot messier than the pop culture version.
A reasonable reading is not that Enmark
irrationally like fell in love with her captors,
but that she was trying to survive a catastrophe
in which the authorities outside did not look reliably safer
than the men with the guns inside.
And that helps explain why many later critics
have treated this origin story skeptically,
and why Stockholm syndrome has never been
like an official diagnosis or anything.
Thanks for your time. I'm glad I could clarify.
Also, this video is brought to you by Mint Mobile.
It's time to stop overpaying for wireless
just because that's how it's always been.
Mint exists to fix exactly that.
They're offering premium wireless
without the premium price tag.
Mint knows affordability is on everyone's mind
and they're here to help with their premium wireless plans.
Starting as low as 15 bucks a month.
Is that what you're paying? You're probably paying more.
Multiply that by 12. That's how much you pay in a year.
They're also offering bulk buying.
Meaning the more months you buy upfront, the more you save.
Plans come in three, six, and 12 month durations
and you'll be receiving coverage
from the nation's largest 5G network.
When it comes to data, one size doesn't necessarily fit all.
And Mint doesn't believe you should overpay for something
that isn't the right fit for you.
Instead, you could choose between five gigabytes,
15 gigabytes, 20 gigabytes, or unlimited data each month.
Switching is easy.
You could sign up and activate in minutes
with eSIM from the comfort of your own home.
You're welcome to bring your own unlocked phone
or shop all the latest phones with Mint.
We have some Mint mobile customers working at Complexly,
including our Chief Creative Officer, Caitlin Hofmeister.
We asked her how she's enjoying her service
and she said the following, quote,
"My coverage is reliable even in fairly rural areas.
The price has never gone up while they continue
to offer me more and I get a holiday card
from Ryan Reynolds every year."
Right now, Mint Mobile is offering a limited time promotion.
A three month unlimited wireless plan for 15 bucks a month.
Upfront payment of $45 for three month
five gigabyte plan required this equivalent to $15 a month.
New customer offer for first three months only.
Then full price plan options available.
Taxes and fees extra. See Mint Mobile for details.
If you like your money, Mint Mobile is for you.
Shop plans at MINTMOBILE.COM/ASKHANK
and use code ASKHANK at checkout.
That's MINTMOBILE.COM/ASKHANK.
So I was fascinated to find that out.
What I often see is like very sort of simple versions
of like, oh, Stockholm syndrome isn't a real thing,
but it's like actually in a much deeper way,
maybe it's like both kind of a thing.
And that like everybody, if you spend time together,
you start to see each other as humans.
Yeah.
So that's not really
a syndrome, that's probably good.
Empathy.
Yeah. Also, the story
is very complicated and weird and fun in a kind of a.
It's a lot of, I feel like that should be an podcast.
Since everybody is okay.
That, that seems like
an entire true crime podcast worth of drama.
Yeah.
And plot twist.
Good drama.
Yeah.
I'm sure that somebody's done it. Good questions, ma'am.
Yeah. What really?
Were they weird? Were they hard?
No, I mean I don't, I don't think this one's next, but.
Yeah, there's one down
I was like, I was looking
The line will be fine.
Yeah, there's one coming.
What are the best and worst parts
about being you?
Very wholesome.
I thought about it a lot.
It's not something that I tend to think about.
I thought about it, I think that one of the best parts
about being me is like feeling like I have agency
in the world and I'm like, I'm like, I have choices.
I can make decisions for myself and that's nice.
Sometimes I suddenly feel like I have less agency.
And then that is, that is not a good feeling.
Does that come from,
There's just a lot
of responsibilities and obligations.
Like being a parent, an employer.
Yeah.
And yeah.
Yeah, the parent stuff doesn't bother me as much as like,
oh boy, some former version of me
got myself in a lot of work here.
Mm.
Dealing with all of this
work that we're all doing.
Mm.
But it's also very good work.
And so if I can sort of get over that rocky bit,
I usually am like, "Oh, actually I do wanna be
doing all of this 'cause you great people
and we're doing good stuff."
Yeah.
And then I also don't have to worry about money.
That's a very good part and like it is,
it's like something that I wish for everybody,
and I don't know how to get there for everybody.
And, but it's just very nice.
It's like when I got sick, like the first thought
wasn't like, "How are we gonna deal with me
not going to work?"
I could worry about other things
and wouldn't have that on top of everything else.
And, and then, but like as far as like me very specifically,
the best part of being me is that I can't on the phone
with so many cool people pretty easily.
Like if I want to talk to somebody who like knows
how to develop a cool, weird product, I can call you.
If I want to talk to somebody who knows what it's like
to like be a Swedish person,
who's also an American person, I can call you.
If I wanna get on the phone somebody who knows
what it's like to be a YouTuber who has to announce
to their audience their serious medical circumstance,
I can call you.
You did do that. That was very sweet.
Yeah.
That's like one of the
nicest can I ask you for advice calls
that I've ever gotten?
I feel like I called you and you were like, "Oh no."
Really?
Does he have cancer?
But it was such a, I mean, navigating that
in a public setting is such a treacherous path.
Are you okay?
I'm fine. Yeah.
Yeah?
It's okay to cry a little.
Yeah. And it's such a weird thing,
and everybody reacts to medical news differently.
And I feel like we're both very external processors of like
the way we understand the world is to talk about it,
and to share it with other people.
Yeah.
And it's like, what does
that mean when you have something that's like so private?
Yeah.
And so nobody's business,
but at the same time you really wanna share it
because you wanna understand what's going on, and-
Well, and also like, you like just vanishing.
When like, with me, I had had such a personal relationship
for so long with my audience.
Yeah.
It was like not an option to be like,
"I'm just gonna like be bald or disappear."
Yeah.
You know?
How do you feel in retrospect that
you sharing it publicly did like?
I feel great about it.
Do you feel good about it?
Yeah.
Yeah. I feel great about it.
Especially because I get so much feedback from people
who are, like, "When I was diagnosed I'd already watched you
go through it and so I was less scared."
Or, "I knew that I could like, like just sort of like
watch those videos again and."
And then also, even without the video stuff,
just sort of tweeting through it.
Yeah.
Which I've tweeted through
my whole life, but tweeting through it was, was very,
I think, helpful for people to sort of like,
have it not be behind the dark curtain, you know?
I feel like a lot of like nice things that people say
to you on the internet can so easily be brushed off.
Yeah.
Those messages of like
somebody being like, "Hey, I was also diagnosed
with a brain tumor and I watch your videos,
and I feel better now."
Like those just hit all the spots.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
There's nothing of like, "Oh!"
I just did a,
I did a fundraiser, a cancer fundraiser comedy show
last night with Grace Helbig.
Yeah.
And so many different
people, like, and I didn't even see that many people
as I was like backstage the whole time,
but like in the parking garage I saw people
and they were like telling me the thing
that they went through, and like people who like diagnosed
at the same time as me, you know?
So they're like going through the process with me almost.
And you're like, "Who won?"
(both laughing)
Yeah. How's it?
Did you beat me?
How's it going?
Did you get better? Yeah?
Did you, did you cancer better than I did? Yeah.
But, which is also a double-edged sword
because I remember, especially when I was going through
my illness and you know, and you're like
trying to live your life and think about other things.
And people will come up to me and be like,
"Hey, my uncle died of brain cancer."
And I'm like, "Ma'am, I'm so sorry about your uncle.
I'm just trying to buy some granola."
Like, it's really-
That. That's not it.
Yeah. That's not, you know, I, I know we're not strangers
to you, but to me we are.
Yeah.
And this is like very intense right now.
But majority of it is just
such a sweet experience.
Yeah.
But I think that is also because you have
such an incredible amount of goodwill
towards you on the internet.
Yeah. No, I mean I can go back and read my like DMs
from that time and it's just sort of a,
museum is a weird word to use.
Yeah.
But like a museum of my relationships.
'cause I've been at it for so long.
Do you sometimes watch the videos you made?
Yeah.
Around the cancer time?
Especially, I'm working on a book about it, so.
Yeah? All right.
I, I like it's part of
Your interview.
Research.
Write the book about it.
Yes.
Yeah, I, because I notice, I sometimes go back
and watch the like videos I made about having a brain tumor
because it's somehow I, I don't know, it's like writing,
reading a journal entry and it's kind of become
a part of the process of it,
of just being like, "Oh, how was that like?"
And then I'll cry a little bit with past self.
Yeah.
And then I'll be fine.
I mean, it's not a great reflection of exactly
how I was feeling at every moment.
Yeah.
But I can sometimes kinda
get in my head and like imagine that it was different
than it actually was, you know, two years ago now.
And then if I watch those videos I'm like, "Well,
it wasn't always the way that I am thinking of it."
Yeah.
Like, I'm mostly thinking
of like the worst, hardest, most painful,
most uncomfortable times or scariest times.
And I'm not thinking about like, you know, the goofs.
Yeah. Yeah.
That I goofed.
While I was at it, which was a lot of it, so worst parts.
Wait, okay, 'cause I have some theories.
Oh Yeah?
I'm just kidding.
But wait, can we, can we just recap that the best parts
of being you was basically being rich and famous?
I, well, I don't know that famous is it?
Well, I don't know though.
Well connected if?
Yeah, well connected. There's something.
Yeah?
There's something really
good about that, and, and it's, it can be,
in, in a lot of fields it can be a like career,
later career thing where suddenly you're like,
"Oh, I can get on the phone with the guy
who wrote that paper and we can talk through
this thing that I'm working on."
Also, being in a bookstore and seeing
multiple friends' books on the shelves
is such a wild feeling.
Is wild. Yeah.
And yeah, I like to think of like both money and fame
as life lube because it just makes everything go easier.
Yeah.
Like, it's like you don't
have to, you can just, money will can solve a lot of things
and being well connected can solve a lot of things.
And that's really, it's a great tool.
It's not a great end goal, but.
Yeah. Absolutely.
It's a great tool.
Tool. Love that.
Yeah. Okay.
Worst part about being you?
Obligation. I just feel a lot of,
because I have all these tools, I feel the need
in the requirement and the responsibility to apply them
to problems that I think
that are either important or interesting.
You seem very burdened by wanting to be a good person.
Oh, well. Is that a burden?
Yeah. No, I mean, some people are seemingly
very unburdened by it.
That's true.
It's not something that.
That they think about at all.
Well, yeah, I wouldn't have said it.
But I do think that regardless of comparing me to others,
I do hold that responsibility.
So diplomatic.
Yeah, I do, I do,
that weight weighs heavily.
Yeah.
Yes, you know, if, if you feel like something you could do
could impact the world in such a way
where it would help a huge number of people,
or even like a, a large number of people, even like 10
or 100 people, you know, even like the, the people
who work for a company that I started,
then why would I put any weight behind like
going out with a friend or planning a fun night
for my family or something?
I feel like for me it's like
that thought reaches a certain point in me,
but I'm embarrassed by how little time and effort
I spend in like spreading my privilege.
Mm.
Which sounded way dirtier.
(both laughing)
No, but it's like, I not, granted, I don't,
I don't have like a tremendous amount of money or anything,
but I'm like, I am doing, like I'm now the powerful person.
Mm-hm.
What am I doing?
And it's like I take great care of my employees.
I think I take good care of the people I love,
Mm-hm.
but I'm not like
on a mission
Right.
In the same way as you are
where it's like you feel like you're really putting
that shame to work, the privileged shame to work.
Putting that.
Yeah.
Yeah, you're like, what do I feel here?
There isn't like a, a way to get to a fair just world.
Yeah.
There's this idea like,
could I ever deserve what I have?
And the answer is no.
Like, there's no way to, to deserve what I have.
And so it has to be like, okay, well when and if
power concentrates, what will you do with it?
And like people really disagree with me
and other people do different things
and some people think that I'm doing the wrong things.
I just have to like make the choice that I feel like
I would make and it can be very stressful.
I really think that you use your power very wisely.
Thanks.
Yeah. I'm very-
But people will disagree.
No, but it's like you,
But it doesn't,
it means a lot.
Very thought, you're very
thoughtful wielder of influence.
Yeah. And I've seen others
and I always do like to call it out
and the people who do it good.
Yeah.
I am envious of you.
Or, or like impressed by your, the focus of your ambitions.
Mm? Really?
Yes.
Do you think I'm ambitious?
Yeah.
That's nice.
Oh?
I feel like I am.
I'm looking over to a loved one of yours to see if they,
how they, what they, how they feeling about your answer.
Wayne, do you think I'm ambitious?
Yeah.
Yeah? That was good.
I, I once said to kind of mentor, I said, "You know,
I was just started making YouTube videos and here I am."
And he was like, "Bullshit! I smell that one a mile away.
This didn't happen by accident."
Yeah. I can.
So, that's how I feel
about every YouTuber, but including you.
Thing is, well, thank you.
Because, and especially 'cause you're not just like
YouTubeing, like you make beautiful videos
about making amazing, or alarming, or useful things.
Very sweet. The thing is,
I used to be so much more ambitious.
Mm.
Like I used to really
wanna go hard and push myself really hard,
but then after my illness I became so soft with myself.
And it turns out that that is also a very viable strategy.
Mm.
I think that's the thing.
Like I don't overextend myself at all.
I work maybe six hours a day.
Yeah.
And I will call it early if I want to.
But I'm also very intentional with how I spend my time
and what I wanna do and the future that I wanna build.
But I'm not like, I mean for the product business
it's like kind of the main focus for me now.
The goal is just to make it successful enough
that I can keep on doing it.
Yeah.
I don't wanna like make the next IKEA, but,
and it's just like for people to be happy,
the people who work for me to be happy
and feel creatively fulfilled,
for me to be creatively fulfilled
and proud of the products I put out.
And I guess that's ambition as well.
Like I'm very ambitious in wanting to have a good life.
Yeah.
But I don't feel terribly
ambitious anymore and like, I wanna like be famous
or super rich, or super respected and yeah.
I think that there needs to be more light shown
upon the fact that that is most of the ambition out there.
Yeah.
Like the people that we
focus on and we look at and we think about,
all of those people are like, "How much power can I get?
And then when I get more, I will use it to get more power."
But most ambition is, you know, like,
"What if we start a restaurant?"
Yeah.
Most ambition is like,
what if there was a tool that would help in elder care
during these specific circumstances and we made it available
at a reasonable price and had a team of people
working well on that project.
Yeah. Yeah. That's nice. I feel like we don't celebrate-
That's most of what's going on.
Sometimes I talk to people who are running businesses
and they're like, "Well, I don't like to think of myself
as a business person." Because that, that term
has been co-opted by like the Silicon Valley version of that
where business is about creating a moat so thick
that you become an oligarch.
Yeah 'cause also in capitalism we focus on value captured
rather than value created.
Yeah. Yeah.
And I think that, and people being very ambitious
and wanting to create value
but not necessarily capturing value.
Yeah.
And that flies under
the radar more.
One of my favorite things
is to create way more value than you capture.
Yeah.
That's, that's like if
you can figure out how to do that,
you can create something really kind of comfortable.
Can you just value out and when you get value in,
you're like, "Hey everybody."
Yeah.
Take this. Yeah.
Yeah, I'm glad we got to talk about that.
Okay. Also this such, I have not fully appreciated
the aha.
(Hank laughing)
It's so good, yeah. This is a long one.
I wonder if this is the one you're worried about.
"I have a hard time gauging how worried
I should be about things.
For my health I'm worried about stress, sugar intake, PFAS,
microplastics, not working out enough, air pollution in LA,
ultra processed foods, and for the global future,
I'm worried about population decline, AI, misinformation,
the rise of fascism, global warming.
How do I rank my worries?"
So I, I'm gonna do two different things with you.
First we're gonna take your health.
Uh-huh?
And that I feel like
I can actually say some things about having done
some research on it.
Mm-hm.
So I ranked them.
Yes?
(both laughing)
And I rank them in two ways.
One, by the confidence that we have in the,
the sort of literature that the effect exists.
And two, how large the effect is.
And so for high confidence, high impact,
we have physical activity and eating healthy.
So I'm not saying ultra processed food specifically there,
I'm saying in general, you probably know what I mean
when I say eating healthy.
So physical activity, like what we, what we see
is people who walk a lot and also people
who lift heavy things have like much better health spans.
And it's like, okay.
Like that it's like so clear in data.
The effect is so much bigger than everything else
you're doing, including food.
Really?
Like really physical
activity is like, I mean you can, you can eat
yourself into a bad place.
Yeah.
But like mostly if you're physically active,
you're in a really like better spot than almost anybody.
Yeah, but okay, but that's the hardest thing
to do on the list, can we find something else?
Well, I don't know how it, you know obviously like the gym
and like weight training is like, that feels like work.
It feels like you, it's hard to do well at home.
You have to make sure not to hurt yourself.
You have to learn how to do it well, especially at my age.
But I mean really like just going on a walk.
If you could do it.
Yeah.
Every day. It's so good for you.
You live in a sunny place.
Yeah, I have two dogs.
You have two dogs. No, you're fine.
Yeah. Yeah. You're fine.
This is why dogs are good for you
because they get you out.
That's really that, I mean, that was one of the reasons
I wanted to get a dog as well 'cause I'm like,
our overlap of needs-
Yeah.
Is really big and look, taking care of you
will also take care of me.
That's right.
Only that did it
as a selfish thing.
Yeah, so it's the food too.
Yeah.
Just shovel that kibble.
Yeah, that was great.
Also, I don't know, I don't eat that but I'll try it.
I started doing CrossFit and the other week-
Yeah?
I was able to do one pushup.
Yeah.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
You want to know
the dumbest thing I've ever done in my life?
I started doing CrossFit during radiation therapy.
Wait, really? Hank?
Yeah. I mean, it started.
I went to one class and I was like,
"That was a huge mistake."
Yeah.
But it was a huge mistake.
When you're in recovery from something like that.
My mom says it's like borrowing money from the mob.
Yeah.
Because if you overstep
or don't like take a little bit too much out.
Yeah.
You're gonna pay
tenfold back.
Well, the thing is,
I felt the best I had in a long time because chemo
hit so hard.
Yeah.
That like the third week out of chemo, I was like,
"I'm on top of the world."
Yeah.
And I was still in
radiation therapy, but radiation like is cumulative
where in the beginning it doesn't affect you much.
It's so sneaky.
But then it like builds up
and is worse, you know?
Yeah.
You've done it.
That's very sneaky.
Yeah.
Okay. So workout.
Yeah. So those, so yeah.
Eat well.
See, and you missed some in the high impact,
high confidence category.
Sleeping?
Yes.
Sleep so much, so I'm not worried about that.
Good job, so you're just not worried about it.
I'm an incredible sleeper.
Because you're doing it.
It's one of my main talents.
Another one in, is sort of like really well studied
and pretty high impact is alcohol.
Mm.
So moderation in alcohol.
Ideally not-
Well, I won't be drinking
this anymore.
Less, less than one
drink a day.
Yep.
On average is very good.
And then we have things that
are in the high confidence medium impact,
which I would be less worried about.
But we know air pollution is a thing
that can have health impacts, especially as you age.
And the other one of those is stress.
So stress is a big deal, but it sounds like
you have a pretty good handle on your stress.
I'm doing good now.
Yeah?
I still, I notice when I get stressed I start stemming.
Mm. Oh I have, I have mental.
Get weird ticks.
Like I have mental ticks.
Really?
Yeah. That I, that,
that like tell me I'm stressed.
Yeah, no, I just start
Yeah.
like my neck starts creaking and then I'm like,
"Okay, I gotta."
Yeah, I have like weird
Go to the park.
Thought triggers that I,
I just think about certain things and I'm like,
"That's my stress thought."
Oh, interesting.
Yeah, it's not like
an upsetting thought, but it is like the one that I go to.
I'm not gonna tell you what it is.
Dude. No, I was, it-
'Cause it will sound
upsetting to you, but it's not upsetting to me.
And then the things that are last on your list,
microplastics and PFAS,
and then also ultra processed foods more generally.
We don't have great confidence,
and we don't think that the effects are huge.
Mm.
So, so in comparison to
things that we actually know quite well, the, the effects
pop out more easily than they have with those things.
Though, those are hard things to study.
Yeah.
Because like food is
especially hard to study, but also like everybody's
got microplastics, everybody's got PFAS exposure.
But like, we're not doing terribly right now.
Yeah.
Like we are like people
think that like we're the unhealthiest we've ever been,
but we're not, we're-
No.
Pretty healthy.
I think I'm, I'm thinking
that also if, if it was that bad,
like we would have seen significant effect.
Yes. Yeah.
Right now. Yeah.
Like smoking has had like a much more obvious-
Yeah.
Impact that people
could tease out fairly easily though that conversation
got dragged on for a long time.
Yeah.
But mostly for like
political reasons, and then there's the,
a last thing on the category, which may not be for you,
but it's for people in general.
Things that your doctor has identified
as problems for you specifically.
So if you have high blood pressure,
if you have high cholesterol,
those things are gonna be a bigger deal
than pretty much anything else on the list.
I have high cholesterol.
Okay. Yeah.
That works.
Which is wild
'cause I'm vegan and I work out and I don't drink much.
I don't know, man.
I don't know. Yeah.
Well, they have drugs for it if you have to do that.
Yeah.
And those are good.
But they're all like, "Ah, just to eat more vegetables."
And I'm like, "Bitch, that's all I do."
(Hank laughing)
Come on. Stop smoking. Duh.
I don't smoke. Yeah.
They're like, "We can tell from your blood
that you're lying."
Yeah. There's something.
No. Yeah.
This is your fault.
And then you had the, the whole list of like things
Oh my God. I'm sorry.
you wanna be worried about
in the world, I just don't know.
Should I be, I.
So what I brought is,
is I put them on a card and we should rank them together.
Yeah. Okay.
Okay?
So we have global warming, we have AI stuff,
we have the rise of fascism, we have population decline.
And what, what I call epistemic collapse.
What does that mean?
That means truth
doesn't exist anymore.
Oh yeah.
Yeah. What should we start with?
Where would we put things?
Do you wanna start at the bottom?
I mean, I would kind of put these, nah, not really.
Yeah, stop at the bottom.
As the same. Yeah.
Ooh. The thing is like, I'm immediately thinking like
population decline, but that is the big concern.
It is a big concern.
Here's what I think about population decline.
Here was why I would argue that it doesn't deserve
to be at the top is because it's gonna be
relatively gradual.
Yeah.
And thus there will be opportunities to look at it
and engage in it, and then the other thing is,
I have experienced a world where we were really worried
about population and we probably shouldn't,
just shouldn't have been worried about it.
We were just worried in the other direction.
So I'm kind of like, I don't know.
Yeah.
Like I'm worried about like
social services being funded.
But I kind of feel like there will be money out there.
We'll probably just have to find new ways
of getting that money
'cause there's a lot of money out there.
Yeah.
We just gotta get it
out of the guys who got it.
I also think it's hard to tell,
I feel like this is such like manosphere.
Right, right. Yeah.
Because it's like, oh.
I really would like the nuanced version of this.
Yeah.
There's a great book.
I can't remember what it's called,
but it's by Jennifer Sciubba,
who may not be pronounced that way. S-C-I-U-B-B-A.
We'll put text on screen.
Yeah, and I, I liked it
a lot and it like came out before this all happened.
Yeah.
But it is about that topic
and I read it and it was like, wow, this seems to be a,
an area of concern that probably a bunch of minds
when put together, we'll we'll figure out
what to do about it in terms of the sort of direct effects
of not having as many young people
to take care of the older people.
But in terms of like, will we, will like humanity
extinct itself through not having babies?
I just don't think so.
No.
I think that there will be new social structures
that will, there's cultures that result
in there being more babies born.
There will be more people in those cultures.
I mean, I think because population decline, the issue,
a lot of it has to do with the labor centric society.
Yeah.
Where it's like the main
input into a society is the labor that you produce.
Yeah.
But if we change that.
If there's a different kind of society.
Which this other problem might help with.
Might, might be a part of, she pointed the AI, the one.
Or might be a part of, yeah.
Then having a bunch of old people that need care,
Yeah. Yeah.
Might not be an issue.
And I don't know. Like the, what I'll say is like,
like this would in particular I feel like goes very low
on the confidence interval no matter where I put it.
Yeah.
Because I'm like,
everybody disagrees about AI stuff,
and I have no idea what it will mean.
I'm just, I'm incredibly concerned
about the way it concentrates power.
Yes, I feel like people don't talk about that one.
Yeah.
So like who defines reality?
Is it one of three guys?
Yeah.
And two of them I, I know quite a bit about
and I don't trust them, and the third one
I know nothing about.
Yeah, it's both, it's putting a very, very few people
in control of who defines reality and who makes money.
Yeah.
And having the same people
in control of those two things feels like terrifying.
Yeah. That's worrying.
Yeah.
I, but I, but I also don't, I actually don't have
any confidence that that's gonna go the way
those guys think it's gonna go.
I think they absolutely could be building a house of cards
that will collapse and they will become pariahs
and everyone will hit them forever.
But I feel like it's interesting 'cause I feel like
all of these relate so much.
Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah.
'Cause the rise of fascism
has to do with the epistemic collapse.
Very much.
That has to do with
the AI stuff.
Especially the AI stuff
that isn't the AI stuff.
It has to do with the AI stuff that we've, we live in
and have had for over a decade now,
recommendation algorithms.
Yeah.
Which is a real world that has treated me kindly.
Yeah, it's treated you very kindly.
But these do feel very epistemic collapse and,
and rise of fascism feel very similar to each other.
Yeah.
I think that this one
is fairly independent of the others.
Those certainly is not helped by any of these.
I think. But that also,
But, but is the one
I'm most worried about.
Yeah. I think that global warming does though in like,
the refugees and crises that it will cause and is causing
will also help the rise of fascism.
Yeah.
Because.
And the rise of fascism does not help anybody
because it is a, a nationalizing force.
Yeah.
It is less of a globalizing
force, does not help with a global problem.
I heard something pretty cheary, which is about that like,
the main thing we will go to towards green power
is just because it's gonna be cheaper.
Like it's not.
It's gonna be cheaper.
And also it gives a lot of countries freedom
that they don't have otherwise have.
Yeah.
So green power is actually
something that any country can kind of make,
whereas fossil fuels are in specific places.
Yeah.
And so that's gonna be like
a very different world in terms of power dynamics
when suddenly like petrol states don't get to be as powerful
because like their product isn't as useful.
Yeah, I really think that the branding around it
is gonna change and that is wild that that is.
I mean, it's like the same with like electric vehicles.
As much as they're a solution,
but also a cause of other problems.
They were marketed as for women in the like
100s of years or 100 years ago.
Yeah.
'cause they were easier
to maintain.
Yeah.
And then it was like, oh, the gas vehicles
are for men and that
just like a shot.
They really, you know?
Electric vehicle in the, vehicles in the foot.
Oh yeah. Interesting.
And then it being like, "Oh, this is like
the more environmental thing and now-
Also shoot in the foot.
The way that electric. Yeah.
And now the way that electric vehicles have actually gone
is like, no, 'cause they're actually pretty cool cars
and they can go really fast.
They go very fast.
So fast, so fast.
They were right. I mean, they were right about that.
That that is how they should be marketed.
As much as, as an electric vehicle driver,
I'm like, I do not care at all how fast this thing goes.
Yeah.
The thing that I do think
that they should do is make them easier
'cause as a Montanan, all the electric vehicles
have those door handles that freeze shut
and they're hard to get open.
Oh No. Yeah. Don't, yeah.
I'm like, "Come on, why is this a thing?"
But I feel like that with global warming and with green,
or like renewable energy is also gonna go through an equal.
Like where it's like, "No, this is actually the cheaper,
more sensible option."
Yes. Right, right.
It's all like market forces will be the thing
that drives that.
Yeah.
And you're like, "Great, great, okay.
I get it. The market."
Yeah.
The incentives. Great.
But I am very worried, it is like a very global problem.
And the climate is not as, it cannot absorb infinite.
Yeah.
But I guess what we're
finding here is all of your problems,
the reason that this freaks you out so much
is they all lean on each other.
Yeah.
And it's like a big house
of problems, and they reinforce.
I think global warming I'm most concerned about as well.
And then the AI stuff because it's the biggest unknown.
It is very unknown.
Like we don't have a roadmap
like the rise of fascism.
Right.
We've seen it happen before.
Yeah.
We know what happened.
The AI stuff is like such a black box and so unknown.
It's really new.
And it freaks me out.
It's not like anything else.
I think of it often in terms of communications,
in terms of media because that's the,
that's the sort of how I study the world.
And it is very interesting as a media technology.
And it is, if nothing else, the thing that makes it
different from the internet, it is that it is centralizing.
Yeah.
So the internet has been
decentralizing media, where anybody has access
to the levers of, of access to information.
Can create, can consume however they want.
Whereas AI is, seems very centralizing.
Now, it individualizes, each person kind of gets their own.
People don't realize this, I don't think.
But like your, if you talk to ChatGPT a lot,
it becomes your politics.
It like absorbs your politics and like tells you
the world the way that you see it, which is wild.
So maybe it's decentralizing in that way.
But it's just gonna make your echo chamber even smaller.
Yeah, it's like echo chamber is you.
Yeah. It's just.
It's just like a mirror.
You're like holding a mirror up to yourself and talking to.
Yeah.
Aah!
Interesting times.
I really don't know 'cause I had no idea
how the internet was gonna go and I still kind of don't.
Yeah.
But I definitely didn't
expect it to go this way.
I think in the face of uncertainty,
I always think that curiosity is the best dance.
(hands thwacking)
Thank you.
We're just gonna stay curious everybody.
Yeah.
That sucked.
Sorry!
(Hank laughing)
I hope my next question was happier.
I don't think it is. I think it's one of the,
I think it's the one,
I think it's the one I've been worried about.
(laughs) This is somebody who's also very burdened
about wanting to be a good person.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
(gentle music)
My next question for you is,
"Are our jobs making us worse people?"
And I mean, you and me specifically.
Oh, okay. Not, not.
Or?
Not like everybody in their jobs, but we don't need
to talk about that.
We can do it everybody
in their jobs.
Yeah. No, I don't,
I don't think we should, or could.
Yeah, but I'm thinking 'cause I feel like as,
as much as my job has a lot of benefits,
it also, the, the things that fuel me to wanna do it
are sometimes character traits that I don't like.
It's people pleasing. It's attention seeking.
It's wanting people to be impressed by me or.
Yeah, you really sort of put your finger on mine there.
Yeah.
I got all those.
Yeah. I got all those. I, this is the kind of a trait,
but at the same time, some of the best people I know,
Yeah.
are our colleagues.
Not you, but our colleagues.
No, you're, you're, you're of there,
you're one of the best people I know.
And but sometimes I'm like, is this feeding the beast?
Yeah, one of the things that, that my therapist
once said to me was, "Hank, just because something
has led you to success doesn't mean
that it isn't a problem."
(both laughing)
Say that to Elon Musk.
Yeah.
Which I'm like, but but don't fix that part.
'cause I like, I need this.
I need it. Yeah.
Yeah. I don't,
I keep opening my notes,
I don't have anything written for this question.
I just, how do you feel?
'cause I used to have so much shame about liking attention.
Yeah. Well.
And it's still,
I don't think I, but I, I'm definitely not the worst.
But it's.
You've seen worse out there.
I've seen worse out there.
Yeah.
I mean, even though that's not impressive living in LA
but I used to have so much shame about it.
I've never had shame about it.
Yeah?
Like literally even
as like a child.
Really I, but I've had a lot of shame about it.
I think it's also being Swedish and being raised Swedish
because it's like, "Oh, you wanna like."
Right. Yeah.
But then I'm like,
I use the attention I get because I like
making people laugh.
Yeah.
And I know I can put people at ease.
And it's like at a party, I'm so happy
to be the first person there 'cause I can help manage
and like the conversation at that awkward,
we're seven people here and it's kind of
a little bit too big.
Yeah.
Of a group to all have one car, but I can manage that.
And then I can go to bed
at 9:30.
You got good skills
and you want to use them well, that seems-
Maybe that's a nice way of putting that.
Well, I always think of myself as a shared resource.
Like I'm not just for me.
And people will hear that and they'll be like, "No, Hank."
And I'm like, "No, actually, if you think
that that's a weird thing to say,
I'm worried about the state of the world.
Because like we share each other.
Like we are not, we are for each other." You know?
Like there's parts of me that's for me.
But like, honestly not most of it.
Yeah. That's why Hank sends me his hair and he is like,
"Eat it." Yeah? (laughing)
Yeah. Yeah.
He takes it very literally.
No, every YouTuber gets a bunch.
Yeah. Yeah. It's great.
Every time I get a haircut.
Yeah. I have a for everybody.
I have a, I have a list of 400 internet creators
that get pieces, yeah.
Yeah. It's beautiful.
What it's all about.
Chemo was actually
amazing for that.
So much hair.
I'm so sorry for that joke.
Really solid, really long hairs too.
It wasn't just the bits.
How I think of this question 'cause I do think kind of like,
I think about the, the reasons
and the ways that power corrupts.
One version of it is like power doesn't corrupt
only like corrupt people end up with power.
And I think that that can totally be a part of it.
But I think there is also an amount of,
when you have some amount of like resources
and tools to do things with,
you have to make harder choices.
Yeah.
You have to like develop
at least a little bit of ruthlessness.
Yeah.
And that can be about
protecting yourself, it can be about protecting your family.
It can be about accomplishing a goal.
It's like, it's just prioritizing.
And what ends up happening is like when there is a lot
of things on the priority tree,
you can end up with some things that are low priorities
that are nonetheless, like shouldn't be, but have to be.
And that ruthlessness feels like, it kind of does make me
into what I would have formerly seen
as kind of a bad person.
I sometimes do make decisions or I,
I don't respond to an email from like a really lovely person
who sent me a really nice letter that like,
I potentially could actually help them out with something.
But I just have to like say, "That gets ghosted.
Like I just can't add that to my list."
Or I don't even look at it because I,
like my assistant is doing that prioritization for me.
And I feel like that is kind of like, it is inhuman.
Like there is something inhuman about like, you know?
Society is now like constructed in such a way that like
we certainly did not evolve to live in.
And so I do see it that way.
Does that make any sense to you?
But I mean, that, that sounds kind of like
the same line of thinking of is it unethical
for hospitals to triage?
Right? Yeah.
Like it's the same,
like you're triaging.
There's a lot of people who want something for you
when you have, or from you and you have to triage
and be like, I can't do that,
but I'm gonna focus on this thing instead.
Yeah.
Yeah. I do think that
the ruthlessness is interesting 'cause sometimes, you know,
I can get so anxious about like,
running a product business and you're like,
oh, but what if the products we ship?
What if there's an issue we don't know about?
Or what if somebody gets their package left?
And that's the type of ruthlessness you need to adopt
of like, but more like,
we know we're gonna do everything we can to make it right.
Yeah.
And like trusting yourself
in that, but I can feel like, oh, but I,
how can I accept a certain amount of like,
company collateral damage?
But I mean, that's the same of like,
having to lay somebody off,
or having to make decisions of like,
yeah, saying no to things.
And it is being in a position
where you have more opportunities
than you know what to do with.
And more ideas than you can do.
Yeah.
Do you have more ideas
than you can do?
No.
No? You got the number, same number of ideas
as things that you feel like you could do.
I don't know, I-
Oh man.
I'm feeling pretty,
I have like two more ideas in my future,
but I'm also so, I'm so skittish.
You're, you're a lot better about taking on
a lot of stuff than I am.
Yeah.
I'm so skittish about taking on things.
I'm like, I don't know.
I think the words.
I don't know if we have the bandwidth of that,
The word you're looking for there is worse.
You are worse at saying no to things.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm,
I'm very good at saying no.
It's very hard for me
to like, have like a idea sit in front of me
and be like, "Hey Hank."
And I'm like, "What's up?"
And he is like, "You know what you could do?
This. You could do me." And I'm like,
"You know what I'm gonna do is you."
Dude, you're like a serial cheater on your projects.
I am.
You've got a new mistress.
A new project.
I'm a bad man.
I am infinitely worse.
Yeah (laughs)
I'm cheating on my project.
You're like, "I don't know.
I'm not really interested in this old project anymore.
I'm gonna go to that other hot one."
Oh, man.
Yeah, the young one
that's not worked on yet.
(both laughing)
Oh no. That frame makes me very uncomfortable.
I, yeah.
(Hank laughing)
I feel like I, I mean this is mostly me
just trying to justify or like not feeling shame about
having the job that I have 'cause I still have shame.
As much as I'm so proud of what I've built,
I still have shame about having built this little universe
that's all around me and all around what I want.
Because it feels like that has to be bad in some way.
But also-
Everybody leave a comment.
Oh?
We could all be
Simone's therapist right now.
But it's a weird thing.
I think, yeah.
Do you feel bad? I mean, I'm not,
I can't even pick out which thing on the list of things
you just said you think is bad.
I've built a business where what I want
is the most important thing.
Yeah, but it's, it's working
and because it's creating value for people.
Yeah, I think I, I've noticed that I get
a lot more satisfaction out of like trying to build
a good workplace for people than I thought I would.
Mm.
And creating a good
environment, and I think also one of the nice things
about having this job that makes me feel good about it
is that you can kind of shine a beacon
for other people to gather around.
One of the things when I was sick that I, I was surprised
by like, when I thought I might die, it was very much like,
oh no, how much stuff is trapped in me that like,
I haven't taken the time to get out?
Like I haven't taken the time to help other people
who have my same job.
I have not done enough of that work.
Yeah.
And I was like,
"Oh, I need to do more of that."
Which I've done more of, but that also I have,
I could do more of.
Yeah.
Yeah. I really like,
like whatever tools, like tools can get really trapped
inside of a person, and I would love to do what I can to,
to have those tools be in other hands and not just mine.
I just wanna sort screws. That's really it.
You could probably make a machine for that, but don't.
Yeah. No.
Though.
(talking indistinctly) Nah.
I feel like other people even on it.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You should do it yourself.
Yeah. Cool.
We ready for a new question? Are we enough?
We are, I think we have two more left.
Enough morality anxiety of-
Yeah. Oh.
Am I a good person?
No, there's more. I was in the head space
when I wrote these questions apparently.
Okay. Oh. Oh, this one I actually.
(gentle music)
Yeah.
Am interested in.
Oh cool.
'cause I have a pretty good answer.
Yeah?
Yeah.
"Is organic produce a scam?"
No.
(hands thwacking)
I mean, so organic produce is very specifically
what it says on the tin.
And the thing, the thing that I am, I need,
because is there a way to fix this problem?
I don't know.
I've never, I've never
heard of it.
I do wanna look at glasses
because I feel like they've looked the same
for a very long time and there has to be
a better way of doing it.
Well, they're just gonna put a bunch of cameras in them
and that'll be great.
Ugh. No.
Okay, so organic food cannot use synthetic fertilizers
or pesticides, it cannot use sewage sludge fertilizers,
which does sound gross, cannot use
genetically modified seeds or growth hormones,
or antibiotics, or drugs
unless dealing with the illness of an animal.
Can't like preventatively use those things.
And that's what they are, that's what they do.
And this is a surrogate, of course, for two things.
It being healthier for the person consuming the food
and it being better for the environment.
It is an imperfect surrogate.
Yeah.
It's not a scam, but it is an imperfect surrogate.
There are ways in which you might be surprised
to find it is not as good of a surrogate as we would imagine
from the nice, pretty simple word organic.
Mm.
And one of them is,
is it healthier? And it's like, uh?
we really cannot tease out an effect if there is one.
Yeah.
So the, the, the effect
on health is very hard to identify, especially ever in food.
Like food is just very hard to study.
Yeah.
You can't like,
strap people down and make them only eat one kind of thing.
You're having them report what they eat.
But also, most importantly with this is like the people
who eat organic food are a certain kind of person,
particularly wealthier.
Yeah.
And once wealth gets involved, health,
it tracks very tightly with wealth.
So that's really hard to tell what's going on there.
So we have looked and have not been able to find a very,
like, obvious correlation between people who eat
organic produce and who are healthier because of that.
As far as environmental impact, this is where there's a,
there's a bigger thing, but there's like a kind of
a give and take here.
So just because it says no synthetic fertilizer
or pesticides, they still use pesticides and herbicides,
they're just different kinds.
And some of them are pretty bad for the environment.
So copper sulfate is a organic, I think pesticide.
And it's definitely bad for fish
and it washes into streams and that's not good.
So, but, but like on average organic pesticides
and herbicides tend to last less time in the environment.
They tend to be, you know, like a little less scary.
They can be better, but like aren't always better.
Still wash your organic produce.
Some people are like, "Oh, it's organic,
it doesn't have anything on it." But it can.
It says like different.
I just lick the surface off.
Yeah. Like, yeah. I mean, look, bodies are kind of amazing
and they can handle most things, so.
Kinda a lot. Yeah.
But there's like
a take here as well, which is that organic farming,
not universally, not like this is not the case
for all crops, but organic farming across all crops,
if you average it, uses more space.
Yeah.
Per unit, per calorie
you get out of that land and land use
is one of the biggest environmental impacts of agriculture.
So we want to use less land
per the amount of food we're getting off of it.
And you know, the more industrial, traditional,
traditional agriculture uses less land
per unit of food made.
Mm.
And that means that there's more calories for people,
though a lot of those calories are going into cows.
And animal feed.
Yeah.
But of course the biggest,
weirdest thing that it goes toward is fuel.
40% of the corn in America is turned into ethanol,
which is burned in cars and trucks.
Really? 40%?
Yeah.
40.
I like the, the things that like keep,
that keep like knocking and flooring me is like,
I'm worried about a lot of things that probably
I should lay off a bit.
Yeah.
For example, 40% of the corn in America,
the largest crop in America that consumes
just trillions of gallons of water literally.
Ethanol.
Wow.
Ah, so sneaky.
It's nuts.
So sneaky.
It's nuts. People talk.
Yeah. The water use, man.
water use is very strange.
Of course, this is like water being pumped
straight from the ground, it's not like municipal water
that we would otherwise be going to your house.
Yeah.
And so, like, there's
only so much that we can impact with our choices.
So the environmental impact of organic crops
is relatively small because the impact of food crops
is relatively small because most crops
go into the mouths of livestock,
or they go into being turned into fuel.
And I just am about to get on, like, I'm,
I'm close to dying on this hill,
like getting on the anti-ethanol train pretty hardcore.
Not the anti cow one?
The anti cow one, people will argue with me about it.
They're like, "But I love beef."
And like it's a cultural flash point.
Yeah.
Nobody gives a shit
about burning corn in their car.
This doesn't matter to anyone.
It's so dumb.
It's part of my
culture actually.
The, the. (laughs)
As deeply rooted in Swedish culture as we bring,
Sweden being a huge nation of corn, yeah.
There's only one huge nation of corn. Thank you very much.
Yeah.
You cannot take that from us.
No, this is actually,
I see you're not very educated on this. No.
We, I bet America's corn fields are bigger than Sweden.
I'm gonna, there's gonna be a-
Yeah.
Thing here.
Little breakout.
Future Hank is gonna tell us
whether America's corn fields are bigger than Sweden.
(gentle music)
Hello. It's future Hank.
America's corn fields are not bigger than Sweden today.
There's something called
the USDA 2026 planting intentions report.
This is where farmers report to the USDA
how much of what crop they're going to plant.
And this currently puts the US corn production acreage
at 95.3 million acres,
which is about 386,000 square kilometers.
And Sweden's official land area
is about 407 square kilometers.
So yes, our enormous corn footprint is a little bit smaller,
about 95% of the land area of Sweden.
But historically, the US appears to have edged past Sweden
at least once, I couldn't find enough data.
It does, it does exist, but I couldn't find it.
But the USDA noted in a report in, from 2013,
that it was the biggest corn harvest since 1936,
which saw 102 million acres planted of corn,
which is roughly 413,000 square kilometers.
So more than Sweden's land area.
So we can and have done it.
Now, I was surprised that we planted so much corn
back in 1936, but this was one while corn yields
were much lower, like 30%.
So we planted way more, but got way less.
Second, this was before we had a lot of soybean acreage
in America, which competes for land with corn.
So they use similar land and there's like way more soybeans
being planted in the US than there was back then.
And three, there were a lot of horses to feed.
So a lot of American farms and some of American transport
generally was powered by corn just like it is now.
But in the form of feeding that corn to animals.
And now a caveat.
This only works if you compare corn acreage
to Sweden's land area.
Sweden's total area, which includes inland water
is about 528,000 square kilometers,
which is much larger than even the 1936 corn peak.
So the cleanest version is this.
US corn has at times been larger than Sweden's land area,
but not larger than Sweden as a whole.
Still, I feel like I gotta give past Hanks some credit
for understanding the magnificent scale of US corn.
I mean that is, that is crazy.
I feel like, but once again, it, it,
so often comes back to big corporations
trying to pin guilt on consumers.
I mean, it also comes down to like farms find,
trying to find ways to market products.
Yeah.
And, and I think that
it is not, like, it's not a terrible thing to do.
Like a small farms should have ways
to differentiate themselves in their practices.
They, they can do things better than big industrial farms.
And I think that there's, there's nothing wrong with saying
like, "This is like organic produce from your local area."
But like, really the, the like weird interaction
between the US government and the agriculture world,
and the ethanol world, is bonkers and weird,
and like not long for this world, I think.
Yeah.
It's very silly.
It is very impactful and it was sold
as like a green innovation and I probably bought
it at the time, and it is, it is a bad idea.
Mm.
It is a bad, it is a.
Corn is wild, man. We're so good at growing corn.
Yeah.
But I don't think
that organic produce is a scam.
But I do think that in, in general,
when it comes to agriculture, the biggest impacts are,
are outside of our control.
And the best thing that you can do is not eat as much meat.
On it.
Okay.
On it. Yeah.
Yeah.
Are you a not meat eater?
Yeah, I mean I'm like 97% vegan.
Yeah. Gotcha.
I just sometimes have a croissant or an egg
if it's from hen that I know is moderately happy.
(laughs) There's one more question.
There's one more, okay? Oh man!
What?
Past me,
we're just getting into it.
But this one I am interested in.
Yeah, it's just a great ending
after all of what we've been through.
Yeah, there's a lot of introspection and anxiety in this.
"What are your best tools for managing your feelings?"
Because I feel like you're a deeply feeling person.
Yeah, so what I do is I look at whatever's
causing the feeling and then I make it go away.
Oh, great. Great.
(Hank laughing)
Is the least healthy way.
Which way a lot of friends
in Hank's life just mysteriously disappear or yeah.
Well, if it's a good feeling,
I let it, I let that thing stay.
Yeah?
But the things that are
causing, I assume that if I'm managing the feeling,
it's one that is not ideal and I don't love and enjoy.
Yeah.
That is has for many years
worked for me, and so it is something
I rely very heavily on.
It's just making the thing disappear?
Yeah, so if like X is causing Y feeling
and I don't like Y feeling, I'm not letting like focus
on trying to fix Y feeling, I'm gonna focus on fixing X.
Hm.
And, and so,
and this is like oftentimes like I'm stressed out
because I haven't sent this email, so I send the email.
And like, that's actually like
a perfectly legitimate thing to do.
And then you scale that all the way to the point where like,
oh, there's a bunch of people on the internet mad at you.
What are you gonna do about that?
And it's like, oh, actually it doesn't work.
Like I can't do anything about that.
Yeah.
The fire is burning.
There's no way to put out the fire.
Mm-hm.
And now I don't have any
tools for dealing with that because I've been effective
at making feelings go away by take like-
Dealing with them.
Dealing with the thing
Yeah.
that causes them.
Taking them out and shooting them in the back.
And I know, like an email.
Yeah.
Yeah. My entire inbox, I took it in the yard.
And I, I said this has
been a, this has been a fairly predictive relationship
thus far, I have spent a lot of time with you
over the last 20 years,
not gonna work out.
but I do need you to dig a hole in the ground.
Yes.
You're gonna be in it.
I have developed tools though because I've had to.
And I don't tend to use them though as much as I should.
They are talking to people who think that I have value
regardless of what I do or who,
like I trust them and they think I'm a good person.
They are journaling, writing it all down,
and they are like thinking large term about what I'm up to,
what I'm trying to do and whether I actually feel
good about it.
Yeah.
So like, regardless of what people think,
what do I actually feel?
Am I making the choices that I think are right
and am I doing the best I can with what I have?
And do I probably know more than they do
because I'm, I'm in my own body
and I know what I need and can do.
That's kind of how I do it, but that has been honestly
like a relatively recent development.
Some, some of those things
I just really, 'cause it's like, especially the feelings
where you're like, there's nothing, there's no action
I can take to deal with this.
As a problem solver, it can be very hard.
Yeah.
So you're the same way?
You're like, if the feeling isn't the problem,
the thing that's causing it is the problem.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I'll fix that.
I'll go to, to length to fix that.
I think for me, the things that I cannot fix,
the thing that works is just being like,
where in my body do I feel this?
Like somebody is on the internet is angry with me
for something I can't fix.
And it's like, where do I feel this in my body?
Like try to pinpoint the physical manifestation of it
and then like, does it hurt?
Mm.
Is this a level of
discomfort I can live with?
And the answer is always yes.
Mm.
You're like, if I'm only thinking about
the physical manifestation of this, I can live with this.
Right.
And then you're like,
okay, then we do that.
So you're like, remind yourself that you're a body.
Yeah, or I think it's just taking,
it's like taking the head off of it,
or like taking it apart, or giving it a name.
It's like there's something about just focusing
on how it feels physically.
Mm.
That makes it less scary.
And then being, because it's like, it's the combination
of the thoughts and the feeling that's so potent.
Mm-hm.
And if you're like,
no, no, no, let's strip it of what it actually is.
Just like, where do I feel it? I feel it in my throat.
I feel it in my chest and a little bit in my stomach.
Is this something that's manageable?
Hm.
And then you're like, yeah.
But what about two in the morning
when you're not in control of your thought anymore?
Oh gosh. When you don't have any skin.
You're just skinless and you're like,
I can't deal with anything right now.
Yeah. It's so wild. It's like all the,
all the barriers go down and then,
and then your body's like, "Hey,
everything you might have worried about ever in your life,
I've got them all lined up here in order by height."
Yeah. I go pee.
Yeah. I go pee too.
Yeah, it's a good 'cause you're like,
I need to bookend this.
(hands thwacking)
Oh, we pee.
(both laughing)
I knew we were friends for a reason.
I lay in child's posts in bed.
Oh?
Because I'm also like,
I need to get out of a different position
and for laying down to feel like a treat.
Okay?
Because you're like,
if you're just laying down, then it's like-
That's all you can do.
There's nothing, but I need,
I need to do something.
Yeah.
So that like being like, oh, I can finally lay down again.
Oh.
That helps.
I go through categories and think of items in that category
of every letter of the alphabet.
So it'll be like countries. And I'm like, Albania, Belgium.
I thought you were organizing-
Canada.
The letters by like,
do they look soft or hard?
Oh, no.
(both laughing)
A is very pointy.
No, that would.
B has bumps.
Yeah. It would be like, I need,
I need pen and paper for this.
And then just listen to my dog snore.
Yeah. I mean, I'm like really frustrated by the fact
that if I'm experiencing this, that if I take a deep breath
and then I exhale very, very slowly, that it helps.
I hate that.
Yeah.
And it makes me so mad because like everybody
who's always told me that if you just do that, it will help.
That is, yeah.
And I've been like, yeah,
I'm sure that it will, and then I never did it.
And now I do it and it was like, that helps a lot.
Yeah.
Like it increases the odds
that I'm gonna fall back asleep within the next 15 minutes
by like 75%.
Wait, so how do you do it?
You're just (breaths)
We'll see in 15 minutes if you're asleep.
I mean, I wouldn't put it past me.
Yeah.
(both laughing)
The last episode of the season, this is great.
But it's, I feel like so much of being a grownup
is just managing your own emotions.
And I feel almost like a parent to myself where I'm like,
I'm a little bit hungry.
Like I'm so cranky and that is probably
because I'm a little bit hungry, or I need to do that.
Yeah.
Or I'm overextending
myself now, I should take a break.
Uh-huh.
And I have such
convincing strong emotions about things and I will be like,
oh, I need to change this or do that.
And then I'm like, I just need to sleep on it first.
Yeah.
And I think a a lot of it
is just taking a break before you turn it into action.
But it's hard.
Yeah.
I just wish I could make myself feel less emotions.
That sounded sad. Yeah.
Well, yeah.
Well what sometimes I, I, and I'm sure that they also do,
but sometimes I see other people going through the world
who have a lot of power and I'm like,
"Do you just not feel?"
Yeah.
"Do you just like?
Are you just not like, does does the responsibility
not sit on you at all?" And I'm very confused.
I think that's why they want the power and the money
'cause they wanna feel.
Well, they want to feel, you know, okay.
That's the hole they're filling.
Yeah. We're all, we're all filling a hole.
You're magnificent.
Oh?
What a, what a good brain you got on you.
Oh God.
Yeah.
That's, that's a,
that's a thing to say to a guy,
Is it?
It's very sweet.
Yeah. No, I, I think you're so, I, I mean,
I told you this, but I, my stepbrother
was a big fan of yours, and he's like,
"How is he in person?"
Like, "What is he, what is, what is he like?"
And it was so nice to be able to say,
you are exactly as nice as you hope you'd be.
Oh.
And you really are.
I appreciate you a lot.
Well, you haven't seen the,
what, what lies in the shadows.
I saw somebody tweeting or whatever,
posting, whatever we call it,
that I would not follow any spiritual leader
until I've seen them spend a week with family.
Yeah.
(both laughing)
I think, I'll come with you on a family trip
with all your extended family and then I'll let you know.
Well, what you-
If my feelings changed.
Yeah. What you, you, the only thing
you would be disappointed by the way,
is the number of times I pick up my phone.
Yeah?
But I, I don't know
that you would be surprised by that either.
No, probably not.
Yeah.
Well, anyway.
I'm gonna take my chair home to my workshop.
Okay. Don't actually go anywhere.
I have to read the outro.
Simone, thank you for joining me and thank everybody.
Thank you for watching.
If you would like to ask me anything, you can do that,
you can post a comment down below with a question.
I'm gonna answer a few of them over the next few days.
Also, if you would like to see more of "Ask Hank Anything"
or you'd like to see more cool things
that Complexly is making, you can subscribe
at youtube.com/complexly, which is the YouTube channel
that you're probably currently on right now.
And if you wanna see more from Simone,
there's a link to her YouTube and Yetch Studio
in the description.
(gentle music)
Thanks for watching.
You can support Complexly and get bonus videos
from "Ask Hank Anything" and more
by going to complexly.org/support.
Also, if you wanna see more of what we're up to,
you can join the Complexly newsletter
by visiting complexly.org.
(gentle music continues)